# 1.0.0-next.41

## 🔥 Breaking changes

These are expected to be the last major breaking changes before a relese canidate is cut.

#### `TevmClient` type is deprecated

- This is a follow up change to the new `extension` based client api change
- Now it is recomended to use `MemoryClient`, `HttpClient` and `TevmNode` types

#### EIP-1193 `request` function change

Shoutout `viem` as the typescript types for the EIP-1193 function were highly adapted from the existing viem types.

- `request` is now an EIP-1193 compatible request function
- what used to be named `request` is now named `send`
- what used to be named `requestBulk` is now named `sendBulk`

#### `createTevmNode` and `createMemoryClient` are syncronous

- Clients are now instanciated syncronously

#### `TevmNode.vm` and `TevmNode.chainId` property removed. `TevmNode.getVm` and `TevmNode.getChainId` added

- Now that createMemoryClient is syncronously instanciated these properties must be fetched async
- They are eagerly created when client is instanciated and cached

## 🐛 Bugs

- Fixed return type of `getAccount` action and `tevm_getAccount` JSON-RPC procedure. Many returned properties were falsely marked as optional.
- Fixed bug with bun runtime failing to resolve contract resolutions
- Fixed bug where eth_chainId returned chain ID 900 instead of the underlying chain id in `forked` and `proxy` mode

## ✨ Features

#### new TevmNode.ready() method

- TevmNode.ready() resolves when the client is instanciated
- The client can be used without calling TevmNode.ready() first but may have extra latency if client isn't ready yet.

#### Stable Decorators

- Stable decorators are now available to use with `TevmNode`
- If using `createMemoryClient` it is not necessary to use these as all currently available decorators are already included.

Decorators available:

- tevmSend - Adds the `client.send` and `client.sendBulk` methods
- eip1993EventEmitter - Adds EIP-1193 provider compatable event emitter to the client
- requestEip1193 - Adds EIP-1193 `client.request` method to the client
- tevmActions - Adds core `actions` api to client
- ethActions - Adds ethereum `actions` api to client

#### New ethereum JSON-RPC support

- eth_coinbase
- eth_sendTransaction
- eth_mining
- eth_syncing

#### New anvil/ganache/hardhat JSON-RPC support

Tevm can now accept the following methods. When all methods are added all hardhat anvil or ganache tools like viem test client should work with tevm.

- anvil_setCode
- anvil_setBalance
- anvil_setChainId
- anvil_setNonce

Note these are only for compatability. It is recomended to use the `tevm.setAccount` and `tevm.setChainId` actions to do this type of stuff.

## 📜 Docs

- [Client docs](https://tevm.sh/learn/clients/) updated to represent the new decorator pattern and syncronous client
